welcome welcome i see a lot of friends
in the audience thank you for being here
we're going to geek out for the next 20
minutes talking about
revenue technology what is revenue
technology well it's a thing it's kind
of a thing that's happening right now
that we're talking about in marketing
circles and sales circles and it's
really this convergence of thinking
about your technology stack as an
integrated stack not a marketing stack a
sales stack a cs stack customer success
stack um but how do you bring those
together in a way that makes sense to
deliver the best possible experience for
your customers
so we're gonna have fun talking about
tech
and a couple other things um so my name
is sydney sloan i'm the cmo at sales
loft i've been there for the last three
and a half years it's been quite a ride
15 million to well just we passed a 100
million so for all those folks out there
we've got our unicorn status it's
awesome
i learned a lot along the way so i hope
to share some of those lessons with you
the last thing is this is the first time
i've actually presented this particular
deck so if you're in the audience or
online
let me know what you like ask questions
since i can't take questions from the
audience i've posted the slides on my
linkedin profile so at sid sloan if you
go there you can download the slides
directly from my profile so let's make
it a conversation that doesn't end just
in this 20 minutes
so first and foremost when we think
about revenue technology or how at your
stage what problem are you trying to
solve at the end of the day
we've talked a lot about
sellers and buyers i was at a session
yesterday we were talking about plg
and boy you know wouldn't it be great to
build that perfect product that just
sells itself
but how many sellers are in the room or
people that have sales people on their
teams
okay
there are 10 million sales people in the
technology industry alone
so selling as a thing is not going away
but it is changing
and that is that it's not about the sell
it's about the relationship
and it's about connecting buyers and
sellers together to solve problems not
to sell
to build long-standing relationships and
sas it's about the relationship that you
have over time your second third fourth
deal is probably going to be bigger than
the first deal so which one is the sell
so think differently about how you're
building your systems to support your
sales teams your relationship teams for
that long-term experience with your
customer
so before we get into the geeky stuff
we're actually talking about which tech
because everybody likes a good like show
me your tech stack
i'm going to go through some guiding
principles and i'm going to start with a
story
my father sam sloan great man
was an architect five years in college
to get your architecture degree really
hard things in tests you have to pass
and he was out and he was building these
great
buildings designing the rest stop system
for the state of nebraska and wyoming if
you've ever driven through there hey sam
sloan thanks a lot for that rest stop
um but what was really interesting is he
went on to get his master's degree in
psychology so he was really an
architectural psychologist and you think
huh
for developers out there you might flip
a switch and be like well what he was
really doing was he was first evaluating
the needs of the people
and then designing the buildings that
would best facilitate how they would
work and different kinds of people want
to work different ways
so why not take that same analogy for
how we think about designing our revenue
technology stacks
what is it that people need
first so when you take the intersection
of people process and technology start
with people step one what do they need
design for them don't just go buy a
bunch of technology because i told you
to
what do your people need
then design the processes
get those mapped out and it's harder
than ever because guess what it's not
linear anymore your buyers are
interacting with you and your teams
they're on your website they're on a
third-party peer review site they're
talking to your sdrs it's not linear so
you really have to think about how does
the sales process and the buying process
intersect so you're giving that customer
the best possible experience and don't
tell them what they already know
keep it simple for your sales teams
point number three
more technology is not the answer
if you have the opportunity if you're
not a ceo that's doing the selling sit
with your sales person for a day how
many clicks do you make them
punish them through once you've once
you've customized your systems how hard
is it to do their job how much data
re-entry are they doing remove that from
the system remove friction so they can
actually do their job which is talk to
customers
you want to scale according to revenue
so i'm going to take you through some
stages that you should think of as you
go from 10 million to 30 million up to
100 million so we're going to see how
sophisticated your your stacks can be
and then don't forget about this
wonderful thing called data
so now more than ever your systems are
collecting every single interaction that
your buyer and seller have those are
signals for how they want to be sold to
those are signals for the conversations
that they want to have and you need to
have someone watching that and studying
it and optimizing your systems ongoing
to take advantage of all that amazing
data that they're getting
okay so i had a good friend say well
don't just tell me about the good stuff
tell me about the bad stuff um so yeah
there's lots of mistakes nobody's
perfect we're you know hopefully fail
fast uh in this world test test often um
so there's a lot of debate going on
right now it's like well do we keep our
sales ops our marketing ops or do we
create a revenue operations team and if
so where should it
sit
i've seen both
and i don't think there's a right answer
but the my favorite answer so far is
who's most passionate about it and has
the most skills to be able to lead the
team
because
having a single vision an integrated
data strategy and a team that's
coordinated against the same
projects
is going to get you advanced versus
three different teams building their own
technology fiefdoms and not caring about
what the next handoff is which creates a
lot of friction in the system and an
undesirable experience for your
customers so
at least create a revenue operations
governance if you're not going to go
ahead and have a full revenue operations
team and that's bringing your sales
marketing and cs ops teams and your
technology strategy under one again if
you're a developer this should also
click for you do you have three
different products maybe architect that
oversees all those products that thinks
about integration same kind of concept
here
shadow i.t versus tech strategy have any
of you added up how much you're paying
in those little apps lately
um i know i have google cloud i have
netflix i've got i don't know 3.99 for
the new york times my son has all like
all of a sudden my apps bill aka shadow
i.t is more than my internet bill
so i
really have to keep an eye on letting
people buy whatever they want and so my
advice here
hard lesson learned because if you go
out and start to evaluate okay what is
out there you might find there you have
five systems that do the same thing
so if you can put in early a process
where when people are acquiring
technology that it just at least you
know what's in there and who's
responsible for it and how much you're
paying for it
um and then again the same thing
administration over automation don't
over customize especially out of the
gate i've seen way too many companies
come in where they've
customized for their unique situations
and have created a crm that is
unmanageable and unusable and then they
just basically have to hit a reset
button at 60 or 75 million because they
haven't managed it from day one so be
thankful uh thoughtful about um uh how
you administer it
all right so let's get into the fun
stuff um what is the right tech for each
of the stages of growth so we're gonna
start with level one
up to a million you know you're out
there as ceos just trying to get your
first customers i know i know somebody's
at 500 000 right now going for their
first million out in the audience and
it's like you don't even need to worry
about your your tech stack yet you just
need to worry about getting those first
customers on board
but once you get to a million you might
want to start thinking about okay what
is it that i need
and so on the bottom where we've got
kind of the the buyer journey that's
that's down below and at this point you
are going to need something to manage
all of
your transactions your system of record
a crm and be that salesforce or a
hubspot or another technology that's out
there those are the two most common we
see for early stage
and you're going to need some kind of
data set to manage against so zoom info
has pretty much bought everybody by now
um and i'm not sure if there's other
ones out there but also linkedin sales
navigator is another really good data to
get your sales data so when you're
building your crm you've got a proper
structure around your accounts contacts
in those accounts and try to keep that
as clean as you possibly can so that's
your foundation i'm not going to talk
about that again but it's going to
maintain on all those lines you got to
start somewhere
the next area is going to be
how your sellers are engaging and
communicating with your customers so
this is the sales engagement this has
now become a must have toppo did study
gartner's done a study it's on
everybody's must-have list
and and so this is where you're going to
coordinate all your communications for
prospecting managing through the buying
cycle
it's it does the work the administrative
work that your sellers don't want to do
and it keeps them organized
so this is where you're going to
schedule your meetings do all your
conversations record all the
interactions that they're having
and then as a marketer
if you're like well my first marketing
hire who should that be i usually
recommend product marketing as your
first marketing hire because they can
understand the strategy they can help
you build your positioning they
understand market segmentation
and they may want to if they're great
writer then then you have found the
unicorn product marketer but they can
also manage other people because at this
point in your early stage you're going
to want to start creating a content
strategy
so this is the marketing side of the
house where we're going to put your
unique thought leadership content out
there
you want to have a blog if you want a
lot of people to read it you can put it
on medium or you can put it on your
website you're going to need a
destination for people to go to so make
sure you've invested in a website
infrastructure and start your social uh
actions going like get your people out
there and interacting on social channels
and be able to
take that message from your blog and
push it out into the places where your
prospects are living
so if you're selling to
engineering people be in there in their
communities if you're selling to sellers
be in linkedin if you're selling to
marketers being linkedin and other
social channels
so if you're just starting this is what
i would recommend and i recommend it all
the time to startups i advise
the point here is that you want to keep
it easy to be flexible and test oriented
be testing those messages what you're
putting out in your blog if it's
resonating then that becomes the cadence
structure that you're setting for your
outbound prospecting
right so they all tie together as you're
trying to formulate what is that value
proposition what's the conversation i'm
gonna have and how do i enable my
sellers to be consistent in the way that
they're delivering it
when you do that
make sure you're getting them not to
send the same message to everybody take
the time to personalize
so we we have 5 000 customers that run
on the sales loft platform and they're
sending millions of interactions every
single day and we know
if somebody actually takes the time to
personalize their emails and their phone
calls that they're increasing their
connection rates by up to 300 percent so
don't be vanilla otherwise i would have
told you to buy marketing automation
marketing automation sends the same
message to everybody by email nobody
wants that anymore
all right
make that point clear
um i think so okay uh so now we're going
to uh to scale up to level two
congratulations you've passed the 10
million dollar mark you're you're
figuring out your product market fit you
know who you're selling to you've got
multiple customers and you want to sell
to more people like them
so
now it's about how do i start to scale
my sales team and my marketing team in
conjunction with each other this time
we're going to add and talked about
marketing first some of the channels
you're going to want to get a little bit
more sophisticated in the way that
you're communicating to your customers
so be that video on your website or
video snippets that you're including in
your cadences by the way communicating a
follow-up from a sales call with a video
is so baller
if you take a recording of the meeting
you just had condense it down include it
in the email follow up as these are the
correct steps i guarantee you that
message is going to get shared with all
the people that didn't show up to the
meeting
you just res taken that one meeting and
you've you've pushed it into your your
buyers
uh committee in a much more efficient
way and i would say that millennials are
pretty savvy at being able to record a
follow-up hey thank you for that call
let me tell you what instead of just a
an email like make it more personal
personalization matters at every stage
of the communication especially when
we're not seeing each other face to face
anymore you have to think about using
these new channels
you'll be cranking up your seo and ppc
so you start to build in some of that
organic traffic so you also get an
inbound as well as an outbound flow
start doing events where your people are
going thank god for saster we're in
person let's do more of these
um and then you're gonna want
and then you're going to want to start
looking at for my top prospects how do i
break through to them so gifting
platforms are a great way to get someone
to
show up for the meeting if you send them
a coffee card get them to take your call
if you're super thoughtful about a
personalized gift that you send to them
i love cameos cameos are like when you
can't crack that nut of that person that
you're trying to get to and then you
find out who their favorite person is
and that person sends a cameo recording
you you'd be shocked it actually does
work
okay
so start to get creative with your teams
about how they're
trying to break through and and and get
a response that's what they're trying to
do
at the same time you're trying to scale
your sales team so this is where you
want to start bringing in facilities for
coaching how do i
curate the best practices for my
conversation recordings and calls and
share those with others i love this the
other day we were talking to the folks
at corporate vision and she was talking
about moving from
just in case enablement to just in time
enablement just in cases train them on
everything just in case
versus just in time how do i give them
access to take that piece of
enablement that gosh i'm going up to
this call and i'm up against this
competitor you know how who does the
competitive differentiation the best or
who handles objections the best they get
to watch a master do it and then be
prepared for when it's their turn to
take that call
this is the evolution of just-in-time
enablement
you're also starting to invest in your
revenue intelligence your systems the
way that that data flows so you're
gathering information that's going to
create a more sophisticated
infrastructure as you continue to scale
so here's the tidbit for this section
and it's actually applicable to all but
i see it all too often
and this idea that i put in all this
technology but i'm still just sending
emails
we know
that if you include multi-channel in
your prospecting or your communication
that you get a 4.7 x lift let me net
that down for why that matters if you've
got let's say an sdr team that's 10
people
your goal is that they're booking 10
meetings a month
and they're booking four meetings and
you can't figure out why
check and see what tactics they're using
if they're just sending email
they have an opportunity to get better
if they
start adding videos phone calls and
social interactions
they'll be able to get a 4.7 x lift i
promise you this is data this is real
data where it works so all of a sudden
those four meetings that they're
scheduling get to 16. you have to take
the time to actually do the work it's a
hard job you have to take the time to do
the work to get the conversion rates
that you want to get and it just is as
simple as going from email to
multi-channel
that's actually hard but takes time
all right so now you're established
you're rocking and rolling you're past
30 million gosh i remember when i
started sales off three years ago we
were about
15 million we had we had a website
wasn't so good um we were doing events
we were great at that um and we had a
rocket an sdr team our inbound i don't
even know what was going on with it
honestly we weren't focusing on it there
were the two people in the the the sdr
team that just got all the inbound we're
sitting on a thousand leads and we're
like okay we can do better
um and so we started looking at our
systems and those really strong
processes of how do we make it so easy
for a prospect to talk to us so this is
about as com complicated as i'm gonna
get i know there's lots i'm sure my
friends out there are like why don't you
talk about my category but i want to
make sure that we're we're keeping it
simple enough to understand you know
what are those core pieces that that i
would recommend here's where you may
start needing marketing automation i i
waited until 75 million to put in
marketing automation i'm not sure that
was the smartest choice um because with
marketing automation you get like
program tracking and attribution so you
know what programs are actually working
when you have so many inbounds you don't
know what to do with all those people
they can go in a nurture
so we started doing that and looking at
that we were able to increase our
conversion rates on inbound by over 218
percent now our inbound engine
is generating 67 of our net new business
i mean like god i love my team
but you know we've really refined those
processes and getting those response
times down to minutes versus waiting for
someone to call them back so marketing
automation does play a role at this
point
you may also be looking into account
base you could have started early if you
know who your role target audience is i
could talk about account based for
another 20 minutes as well but i only
have a minute 49 seconds so i'm not
going to um but what um what you want to
look at here is like what are my top
accounts top 150 accounts that i want to
go after and how do i start to
orchestrate
how i segment these folks how i send ads
to these folks how i'm tracking my
outbound prospecting to those top tier
accounts and then also and i think this
is the biggest change in account base is
seeing who's actually in market because
if your teams aren't using account base
your competitors are and they're going
to get to them first and that's not what
you want because then you're playing
defense rather than offense because
remember that buying journey they're
doing all this research and those are
signaling in and these account based
vendors are capturing those signals and
saying hey somebody from this company is
interested in what you care about so
those are the ones that you should go
hard after start sending them ads point
your sdrs towards them that's what
account based is going to give you
and then you're going to start to scale
your enablement and training
this is like the seismics the the high
spots and show pad folks where you're
integrating training into the sales
process and um and i also want to
highlight governance here because at
this point you're probably doing global
activities and so you need to be mindful
of how you're managing your data
are you selling into countries that have
gdpr requirements yeah that fun stuff so
um so you get to have your rev tech team
your rev ops team start thinking about
your governance practices um not fun but
somebody has to do it and hey there's
people out there that love doing it so
find those folks
all right content is the last one and
this is where you can start to curate
content specifically for accounts so
things like uber flip and follows and
those kinds of technologies where you're
you're
you you set up i'm gonna send a customer
a bunch of different pieces of content
you actually get to see what what
they're clicking on so you know what
they're interested in so again you're
making your conversation relevant when
you come back
so that's it
key takeaways first and foremost start
with the right experience design for
your customers so they have a wonderful
experience with you make sure it's easy
for your buyers and your marketing teams
to serve them enable your sellers for
what they do best that's not re-king
information administrative overload like
let them be communicating with their
customers and make sure you've got a
dedicated team managing the process this
isn't just something you set in and let
it go you need dedicated people who are
super smart on running processes and
systems and you need to staff it because
they're always overloaded
all right so if you um want to follow up
or have any questions sailsoft has our
our partners in an ecosystem booth
they're happy to talk to you so sixth
sense alice corporate vision seismic
vidyard and our team are there thank you
very much
[Applause]
[Music]
you